README.md, before:

# customs-declare-exports-frontend

## Summary
This public-facing microservice is part of Customs Exports Declaration Service (CEDS). It is designed to work in tandem with [customs-declare-exports](https://github.com/hmrc/customs-declare-exports) service.

It provides functionality to submit and manage exports declarations.

## Prerequisites
This service is written in [Scala](http://www.scala-lang.org/) and [Play](http://playframework.com/), so needs at a [JRE](https://www.java.com/en/download/) to run and a JDK for development.

This service does **not** use MongoDB.

This service depends on other services. The easiest way to set up required microservices is to use Service Manager and profiles from [service-manager-config](https://github.com/hmrc/service-manager-config/) repository:
- CDS_EXPORTS_DECLARATION_DEPS - all services EXCEPT both declarations services
- CDS_EXPORTS_DECLARATION_ALL - all services together with both declarations services

### Running the application
In order to run the application you need to have SBT installed. Then, it is enough to start the service with: 

`sbt run`

### Testing the application
This repository contains unit tests for the service. In order to run them, simply execute:

`sbt test`


## Developer notes
You may want to point to a non-local frontend Assets server.  If so then simply set an environment variable
ASSETS_URL

### Feature flags
This service uses feature flags to enable/disable some of its features. These can be changed/overridden in config under `microservice.services.features.<featureName>` key.

The list of feature flags and what they are responsible for:

`betaBanner = [enabled/disabled]` - When enabled, all pages in the service have BETA banner.

`ead = [enabled/disabled]` - When enabled, page under url */submissions/[ID]/information* may contain link to generate Exports Accompanying Document.

`sfus = [enabled/disabled]` - When enabled, page under url */submissions/[ID]/information* may contain link to Secure File Upload Service.

`secureMessagingInbox = [disabled / sfus / exports]` - Controls which Secure Messaging Inbox is used - none, the one embedded into exports service, or redirects to inbox in Secure File Upload Service.

`use-improved-error-messages = [true/false]` - When enabled, DMS errors have descriptions made by Exports team designers. Otherwise, they have default CDS descriptions.

### Scalastyle

Project contains scalafmt plugin.

Commands for code formatting:

```
scalafmt        # format compile sources
test:scalafmt   # format test sources
sbt:scalafmt    # format .sbt source
```

To ensure everything is formatted you can check project using commands below

```
scalafmt::test      # check compile sources
test:scalafmt::test # check test sources
sbt:scalafmt::test  # check .sbt sources
```

### Pre-merge check
There is a script called `precheck.sh` that runs all tests, examine their coverage and check if all the files are properly formatted.
It is a good practise to run it just before pushing to GitHub. 


### Auto Complete

This project has a 
[TamperMonkey](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/tampermonkey/dhdgffkkebhmkfjojejmpbldmpobfkfo?hl=en) (Google Chrome)
or 
[GreaseMonkey](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-GB/firefox/addon/greasemonkey/) (Firefox)
Auto Complete Script to help speed through the form journey.

These scripts can be found in the docs directory.

### Tariff Code lists

As per Exports Product Manager and CDS Stakeholders instructions, the [CDS Tariff](https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/uk-trade-tariff-volume-3-for-cds--2) 
is our source of truth for any CDS codes going forward, until further instructions or until we connect with a service that provides this data for us.

We use the following codes:
 * [Country codes](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/country-codes-for-the-customs-declaration-service) *Last updated 17 March 2023*
 * [Authorisation codes](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/authorisation-type-codes-for-data-element-339-of-the-customs-declaration-service) (3/39 in tariff) *Last updated 1 July 2022*
 * [UK Office of Exit codes](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/uk-customs-office-codes-for-data-element-512-of-the-customs-declaration-service) (5/12 in tariff) *Last updated 17 April 2023*
 * [Document type codes (previous document page)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/previous-document-codes-for-data-element-21-of-the-customs-declaration-service) (2/1 in tariff) *Last published: 1 August 2018*
 * [Package Type codes](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/package-type-codes-for-data-element-69-of-the-customs-declaration-service) (6/9 in tariff) *Last published: 1 August 2018*
 * [Customs supervising office codes](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/supervising-office-codes-for-data-element-527-of-the-customs-declaration-service) (5/27 in tariff) *Last updated 13 March 2023*

## Generating TDRSecret values for a given EORI
As this service deployed in ExternalTest as part of the CDS Trader Dress Rehearsal, an additional enrolment value of 'TDRSecret' is required for a user to successfully authenticate in this environment.

To generate a valid 'TDRSecret' value for a user you can call the following program replacing the two `<???>` parameters with the appropriate values:

```sbt "runMain utils.GenerateTdrSecret <tdrHashSalt> <eori>"```

## License

This code is open source software licensed under the [Apache 2.0 License]("http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html")

Commit message:

BAU Altering TDRSecret generator program
To allow supplying multiple EORIs in a single run

README.md, after:

# customs-declare-exports-frontend

## Summary
This public-facing microservice is part of Customs Exports Declaration Service (CEDS). It is designed to work in tandem with [customs-declare-exports](https://github.com/hmrc/customs-declare-exports) service.

It provides functionality to submit and manage exports declarations.

## Prerequisites
This service is written in [Scala](http://www.scala-lang.org/) and [Play](http://playframework.com/), so needs at a [JRE](https://www.java.com/en/download/) to run and a JDK for development.

This service does **not** use MongoDB.

This service depends on other services. The easiest way to set up required microservices is to use Service Manager and profiles from [service-manager-config](https://github.com/hmrc/service-manager-config/) repository:
- CDS_EXPORTS_DECLARATION_DEPS - all services EXCEPT both declarations services
- CDS_EXPORTS_DECLARATION_ALL - all services together with both declarations services

### Running the application
In order to run the application you need to have SBT installed. Then, it is enough to start the service with: 

`sbt run`

### Testing the application
This repository contains unit tests for the service. In order to run them, simply execute:

`sbt test`


## Developer notes
You may want to point to a non-local frontend Assets server.  If so then simply set an environment variable
ASSETS_URL

### Feature flags
This service uses feature flags to enable/disable some of its features. These can be changed/overridden in config under `microservice.services.features.<featureName>` key.

The list of feature flags and what they are responsible for:

`betaBanner = [enabled/disabled]` - When enabled, all pages in the service have BETA banner.

`ead = [enabled/disabled]` - When enabled, page under url */submissions/[ID]/information* may contain link to generate Exports Accompanying Document.

`sfus = [enabled/disabled]` - When enabled, page under url */submissions/[ID]/information* may contain link to Secure File Upload Service.

`secureMessagingInbox = [disabled / sfus / exports]` - Controls which Secure Messaging Inbox is used - none, the one embedded into exports service, or redirects to inbox in Secure File Upload Service.

`use-improved-error-messages = [true/false]` - When enabled, DMS errors have descriptions made by Exports team designers. Otherwise, they have default CDS descriptions.

### Scalastyle

Project contains scalafmt plugin.

Commands for code formatting:

```
scalafmt        # format compile sources
test:scalafmt   # format test sources
sbt:scalafmt    # format .sbt source
```

To ensure everything is formatted you can check project using commands below

```
scalafmt::test      # check compile sources
test:scalafmt::test # check test sources
sbt:scalafmt::test  # check .sbt sources
```

### Pre-merge check
There is a script called `precheck.sh` that runs all tests, examine their coverage and check if all the files are properly formatted.
It is a good practise to run it just before pushing to GitHub. 


### Auto Complete

This project has a 
[TamperMonkey](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/tampermonkey/dhdgffkkebhmkfjojejmpbldmpobfkfo?hl=en) (Google Chrome)
or 
[GreaseMonkey](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-GB/firefox/addon/greasemonkey/) (Firefox)
Auto Complete Script to help speed through the form journey.

These scripts can be found in the docs directory.

### Tariff Code lists

As per Exports Product Manager and CDS Stakeholders instructions, the [CDS Tariff](https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/uk-trade-tariff-volume-3-for-cds--2) 
is our source of truth for any CDS codes going forward, until further instructions or until we connect with a service that provides this data for us.

We use the following codes:
 * [Country codes](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/country-codes-for-the-customs-declaration-service) *Last updated 17 March 2023*
 * [Authorisation codes](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/authorisation-type-codes-for-data-element-339-of-the-customs-declaration-service) (3/39 in tariff) *Last updated 1 July 2022*
 * [UK Office of Exit codes](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/uk-customs-office-codes-for-data-element-512-of-the-customs-declaration-service) (5/12 in tariff) *Last updated 17 April 2023*
 * [Document type codes (previous document page)](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/previous-document-codes-for-data-element-21-of-the-customs-declaration-service) (2/1 in tariff) *Last published: 1 August 2018*
 * [Package Type codes](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/package-type-codes-for-data-element-69-of-the-customs-declaration-service) (6/9 in tariff) *Last published: 1 August 2018*
 * [Customs supervising office codes](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/supervising-office-codes-for-data-element-527-of-the-customs-declaration-service) (5/27 in tariff) *Last updated 13 March 2023*

## Generating TDRSecret values for a given EORI
As this service deployed in ExternalTest as part of the CDS Trader Dress Rehearsal, an additional enrolment value of 'TDRSecret' is required for a user to successfully authenticate in this environment.

To generate a valid 'TDRSecret' value for a user you can call the following program replacing the two `<???>` parameters with the appropriate values:

```sbt "runMain utils.GenerateTdrSecret <tdrHashSalt> <eori>"```

Note the `<eori>` parameter can be a comma delimited list of EORIs (if you want to generate multiple 'TDRSecret' values at any one time). 

The output of the program is:
```<eori>,<newGeneratedTdrSecret>```

## License

This code is open source software licensed under the [Apache 2.0 License]("http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html")
